OKTA-403658: Adding API references for branding (#2349)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/brands/index.md

---
title: Brands
category: management
---

# Brands API

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

The Okta Brands API allows you to customize the look and feel of pages and templates, such as the Okta-hosted Sign-In Page, error pages, email templates, and the Okta End-User Dashboard.

Each org starts off with Okta's default branding. You can upload your own assets (colors, background image, logo, and favicon) to replace Okta's default brand assets. You can then publish these assets directly to your pages and templates.

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get started
```

Explore the Brands API: [![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](https://app.getpostman.com/run-collection/1d58ab8a3909dd6a3cfb)

> ## Brand Operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Brand operations
```

  "errorPageTouchPointVariant": "OKTA_DEFAULT",
  "emailTemplateTouchPointVariant": "OKTA_DEFAULT",
  "_links": {
    "favicon": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/bndul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/themes/thdul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/favicon",
      "hints": {
        "allow": [
          "POST",
          "DELETE"
        ]
      }
    },
    "self": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/bndul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/themes/thdul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3",
      "hints": {
        "allow": [
          "GET",
          "PUT"
        ]
      }
    },
    "logo": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/bndul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/themes/thdul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/logo",
      "hints": {
        "allow": [
          "POST",
          "DELETE"
        ]
      }
    },
    "background-image": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/bndul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/themes/thdul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/background-image",
      "hints": {
        "allow": [
          "POST",
          "DELETE"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Update Theme

<ApiOperation method="put" url="/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}" />

Updates a Theme for a Brand

> > **NOTE:** Clear the browser cache to see the new changes after updating the Theme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Clear the browser cache to see the new changes after updating the Theme.
```

-F 'file=@/path/to/file' \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/logo"
```

#### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 201 Content Created
Content-Type: application/json
```

```json
{
  "url": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/bc/image/fileStoreRecord?id=fs09yfpj6PnWzgzIQ0g4"
}
```

The following request shows invalid logo validations.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-F 'file=@/path/to/invalid-file' \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/logo"
```

#### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/json
```

```json
{
  "errorCode": "E0000001",
  "errorSummary": "Api validation failed: file",
  "errorLink": "E0000001",
  "errorId": "oaeuDAe4dpETauG5euWTEqxLQ",
  "errorCauses": [
    {
      "errorSummary": "Your selected image is 4,158kB, which exceeds the 1,024kB limit"
    },
    {
      "errorSummary": "Your selected image is 5,568 pixels wide, which exceeds the 3,840 pixel limit"
    },
    {
      "errorSummary": "Your selected image is 11,136 pixels high, which exceeds the 2,160 pixel limit"
    }
  ]
}
```

> > **NOTE:** The [/api/v1/org/logo endpoint](/docs/reference/api/org/#org-logo-operations) still works, but pages use the logo from the Theme if the `THEME_BUILDER` feature is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The [/api/v1/org/logo endpoint](/docs/reference/api/org/#org-logo-operations) still works, but pages use the logo from the Theme if the `THEME_BUILDER` feature is enabled.
```

#### Response body

None.

Passing an invalid `brandId` or an invalid `themeId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

#### Use examples

The following request removes the uploaded Theme favicon.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X DELETE \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/favicon"
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

### Upload Theme background image

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/background-image" />

Updates the background image for your Theme

#### Request body

| Property | Type | Description                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|----------|------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `file`   | File | The image must be a png, jpg, or gif file and be less than 2MB in size. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `file`   | File | The image must be a PNG, JPG, or GIF file and be less than 2MB in size. |
```

| `secondaryColorContrastHex`           | String   | (Optional) Secondary color contrast hex code. Accepted values: `#000000`, `#ffffff`.                                       | `#000000`         |
| `signInPageTouchPointVariant`         | Enum     | Variant for sign-in page. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`, `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`.               | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |
| `endUserDashboardTouchPointVariant`   | Enum     | Variant for the Okta End-User Dashboard. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `WHITE_LOGO_BACKGROUND`, `FULL_THEME`.                    | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |
| `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | Enum     | Variant for the error page. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`, `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`.                 | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |
| `emailTemplateTouchPointVariant`      | Enum     | Variant for email templates. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `FULL_THEME`.                                                | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |

> **Note:** Contrast color is used by pages to optimize the opacity of text color when primary or secondary color is used as the background.

> > **Note:** For existing orgs with customizations, refer to following [table](#data-migration-from-existing-orgs) for different scenarios with initial variant values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** For existing orgs with customizations, refer to the following [table](#data-migration-from-existing-orgs) for different scenarios with initial variant values.
```

| `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              | Use the logo and background image from Theme.                                                            |

#### Variants for the Okta End-User Dashboard:

| Enum Value                      | Description                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use the Okta default logo with a white background color for the logo and the side navigation bar background color.                           |
| `WHITE_LOGO_BACKGROUND`         | Use the logo from Theme with a white background color for the logo and use `primaryColorHex` for the side navigation bar background color.   |
| `FULL_THEME`                    | Use the logo from Theme and `primaryColorHex` for the logo and the side navigatioin bar background color                                    |

#### Variants for Error Page:

> > **Note:** For non `OKTA_DEFAULT` variant, `primaryColorHex` is used for button background color and `primaryColorContrastHex` is used to optimize the opacity for button text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** For the non `OKTA_DEFAULT` variant, `primaryColorHex` is used for button background color and `primaryColorContrastHex` is used to optimize the opacity for button text.
```

| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use the Okta default logo and the Okta default background color.                                      |
| `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`    | Use the logo from Theme with `secondaryColorHex` as the background color for the error page.                 |
| `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              | Use the logo and background image from Theme.                                                            |

#### Variants for Email Templates:

| Enum Value                      | Description                                                                     |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use the Okta default logo and the Okta default colors in the email templates.    |
| `FULL_THEME`                    | Use the logo from Theme and `primaryColorHex` as the background color for buttons.      |

##### Theme example

```json
{
  "primaryColorHex": "#1662dd",
  "primaryColorContrastHex": "#ffffff",

>   "secondaryColorHex": "#ebebed",

Reviewer 2: I think you're missing `secondaryColorContrastHex` in this json

### Data migration from existing orgs

Initial Theme variant values are different for existing orgs with customizations.

| Property                              | Org Logo Uploaded     | Background Image Uploaded  | Initial Value                   |
| ------------------------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `signInPageTouchPointVariant`         | no                    | no                         | `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  |
| `signInPageTouchPointVariant`         | yes                   | no                         | `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`    |
| `signInPageTouchPointVariant`         | yes                   | yes                        | `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              |
| `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | no                    | no                         | `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  |
| `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | yes                   | no                         | `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`    |
| `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | yes                   | yes                        | `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              |

### Logo scenarios

> The following scenarios explains which logo is used when based on the `THEME_BUILDER` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following scenarios explain which logo is used when based on the `THEME_BUILDER` flag.
```

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter | Type        | Description   |
| --------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| `brandId` | String (URL)| ID of a Brand |
| `themeId` | String (URL)| ID of a Theme |

#### Request body

| Property | Type | Description                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|----------|------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `file`   | File | The file must be in PNG, JPG, or GIF format and less than 1 MB in size. For best results use landscape orientation, a transparent background, and a minimum size of 420px by 120px to prevent upscaling. |

#### Response body

Returns `201 Created` with [Logo URL](#image-upload-response-object)

Passing an invalid `brandId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

Passing an invalid `themeId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

> Passing an invalid `file` returns a `400 Bad Request` status code with error code `E0000001`.

Author: this will be required as error code is different

Content-Type: application/json
```

```json
{
  "url": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/bc/image/fileStoreRecord?id=fs09yfpj6PnWzgzIQ0g4"
}
```

The following request shows invalid logo validations.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-F 'file=@/path/to/invalid-file' \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/logo"
```

#### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/json
```

```json
{
  "errorCode": "E0000001",
  "errorSummary": "Api validation failed: file",
  "errorLink": "E0000001",
  "errorId": "oaeuDAe4dpETauG5euWTEqxLQ",
  "errorCauses": [
    {
      "errorSummary": "Your selected image is 4,158kB, which exceeds the 1,024kB limit"
    },
    {
      "errorSummary": "Your selected image is 5,568 pixels wide, which exceeds the 3,840 pixel limit"
    },
    {
      "errorSummary": "Your selected image is 11,136 pixels high, which exceeds the 2,160 pixel limit"
    }
  ]
}
```

> **NOTE:** [/api/v1/org/logo endpoint](/docs/reference/api/org/#org-logo-operations) will still work but pages will use logo from theme if `THEME_BUILDER` feature is enabled.

> > Please refer to following [scenarios](#logo-scenarios)

Author: yes, you are right. I was keeping the API portions cleaner by moving the scenarios down. 
Any suggestions on moving the section up here or can proceed with `See the Logo scenarios section for example logo scenarios.` ?

##### Response body

None.

Passing an invalid `brandId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

Passing an invalid `themeId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

#### Use examples

The following request removes the uploaded Theme logo.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X DELETE \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/logo"
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

### Upload Theme Favicon

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/favicon" />

Updates the favicon for your theme

#### Request body

| Property | Type | Description                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|----------|------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `file`   | File | The file must be in PNG, or ICO format and must be in 1:1 ratio with maximum 512 x 512 dimensions |

Author: Created PR for updating the error message in monolith: https://github.com/okta/okta-core/pull/55310
@albertchen-okta @susanharper-okta

#### Response body

Returns `201 Created` with [Favicon URL](#image-upload-response-object)

Passing an invalid `brandId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

Passing an invalid `themeId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

Passing an invalid `file` returns a `400 Bad Request` status code with error code `E0000001`.

#### Use examples

The following request updates the Theme Favicon with the uploaded file.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-F 'file=@/path/to/file' \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/favicon"
```

#### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 201 Content Created
Content-Type: application/json
```

```json
{
  "url": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/bc/image/fileStoreRecord?id=fs09yfpj6PnWzgzIQ0g4"
}
```

> The following request shows invalid Favicon dimensions validations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following request shows validations for invalid favicon dimensions.
```

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-F 'file=@/path/to/invalid-file' \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/favicon"
```

#### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/json
```

```json
{
  "errorCode": "E0000001",
  "errorSummary": "Api validation failed: file",
  "errorLink": "E0000001",
  "errorId": "oae-71S2vP_TWWqdCVEndqHCw",
  "errorCauses": [
    {

>       "errorSummary": "Your selected image should be in 1:1 ratio for width and height. found 199 x 200, it should be 199 x 199 or 200 x 200"

Reviewer: any chance we can fix this so that it's more readable? 

```suggestion
      "errorSummary": "Your selected image should be in a 1:1 ratio for width and height. Found 199 x 200. The image should be 199 x 199 or 200 x 200."
```

Author: updated the error message in monolith: https://github.com/okta/okta-core/pull/55310
@susanharper-okta @albertchen-okta

    }
  ]
}
```

### Delete Theme Favicon

<ApiOperation method="delete" url="/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/favicon" />

> Deletes a Theme Favicon and org will use Okta default Favicon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deletes a Theme favicon. The org then uses the Okta default favicon.
```

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter | Type        | Description   |
| --------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| `brandId` | String (URL)| ID of a Brand |
| `themeId` | String (URL)| ID of a Theme |

#### Response body

None.

> Passing an invalid `brandId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Passing an invalid `brandId` or an invalid `themeId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.
```

Passing an invalid `themeId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

#### Use examples

> The following request removes the uploaded Theme Favicon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following request removes the uploaded Theme favicon.
```

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X DELETE \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/favicon"
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

> ### Upload Theme Background Image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upload Theme background image
```

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/background-image" />

> Updates the background Image for your theme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates the background image for your Theme
```

#### Request body

| Property | Type | Description                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|----------|------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `file`   | File | The image must be a png, jpg, or gif file, and be less than 2MB in size. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `file`   | File | The image must be a png, jpg, or gif file and be less than 2MB in size. |
```

#### Response body

> Returns `201 Created` with [Background Image URL](#image-upload-response-object)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns `201 Created` with the [background image URL](#image-upload-response-object)
```

> Passing an invalid `brandId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Passing an invalid `brandId` or an invalid `themeId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.
```

> Passing an invalid `themeId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Passing an invalid `file` returns a `400 Bad Request` status code with error code `E0000001`.

#### Use examples

The following request updates the Theme background image with the uploaded file.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-F 'file=@/path/to/file' \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/background-image"
```

#### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 201 Content Created
Content-Type: application/json
```

```json
{
  "url": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/bc/image/fileStoreRecord?id=fs09yfpj6PnWzgzIQ0g4"
}
```

The following request shows background image validations.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-F 'file=@/path/to/invalid-file' \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/background-image"
```

#### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/json
```

```json
{
  "errorCode": "E0000001",
  "errorSummary": "Api validation failed: file",
  "errorLink": "E0000001",
  "errorId": "oae_eZ88QUzReSZcxI_e1H9Aw",
  "errorCauses": [
    {

>       "errorSummary": "Your selected image is 11,136 pixels high, which exceeds the 8,000 pixel limit"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "errorSummary": "Your selected image is 11,136 pixels high, which exceeds the 8,000 pixel limit."
```

    }
  ]
}
```

> ### Delete Theme Background Image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Delete Theme background image
```

<ApiOperation method="delete" url="/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/background-image" />

> Deletes a Theme background image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deletes a Theme background image
```

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter | Type        | Description   |
| --------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| `brandId` | String (URL)| ID of a Brand |
| `themeId` | String (URL)| ID of a Theme |

##### Response body

None.

> Passing an invalid `brandId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Passing an invalid `brandId` or an invalid `themeId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.
```

> Passing an invalid `themeId` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000007`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

#### Use examples

The following request removes the uploaded Theme background image.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X DELETE \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/{brandId}/themes/{themeId}/background-image"
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

## Brand API Objects

> ### Brand Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Brand object
```

The Brand request object defines the following properties:

| Property                      | Type                    | Description                                                                                         |
| ----------------------------- | ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `agreeToCustomPrivacyPolicy`  | boolean                 | (Optional) Consent for updating the custom privacy policy URL. Not required when resetting the URL. |

> | `customPrivacyPolicyUrl`      | String                  | Custom privacy Policy URL. Default value: `null`                                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `customPrivacyPolicyUrl`      | String                  | Custom privacy policy URL. Default value: `null`.                                                   |
```

| `_links`                      | [Links](#links-object)  | Link relations for this object                                                                      |

#### Brand example

> Updating custom privacy policy URL for a brand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates a custom privacy policy URL for a brand
```

```json
{
  "agreeToCustomPrivacyPolicy": true,
  "customPrivacyPolicyUrl": "https://www.someHost.com/privacy-policy"
}
```

> Reset privacy policy URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resets a privacy policy URL
```

```json
{
  "customPrivacyPolicyUrl": null
}
```

> ### Brand Response Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Brand Response object
```

The Brand Response object defines the following properties:

| Property                  | Type                    | Description                     |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------- |

> | `customPrivacyPolicyUrl`  | String                  | Custom privacy Policy URL       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `customPrivacyPolicyUrl`  | String                  | Custom privacy policy URL       |
```

| `id`                      | String                  | Brand ID                        |
| `_links`                  | [Links](#links-object)  | Link relations for this object  |

> #### Brand Response example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Brand response example
```

```json
{
  "id": "bndul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3",
  "customPrivacyPolicyUrl": null,
  "_links": {
    "themes": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/bndul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/themes",
      "hints": {
        "allow": [
          "GET"
        ]
      }
    },
    "self": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/bndul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3",
      "hints": {
        "allow": [
          "GET",
          "PUT"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Theme API Objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Theme API objects
```

> ### Theme Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Theme object
```

The Theme object defines the following properties:

| Property                              | Type     | Description                                                                                                                | Default Value     |
| ------------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |

> | `primaryColorHex`                     | String   | Primary color hex code.                                                                                                    | `#1662dd`         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `primaryColorHex`                     | String   | Primary color hex code                                                                                                   | `#1662dd`         |
```

| `primaryColorContrastHex`             | String   | (Optional) Primary color contrast hex code. Accepted values: `#000000`, `#ffffff`.                                         | `#000000`         |

> | `secondaryColorHex`                   | String   | Secondary color hex code.                                                                                                  | `#ebebed`         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `secondaryColorHex`                   | String   | Secondary color hex code                                                                                                 | `#ebebed`         |
```

| `secondaryColorContrastHex`           | String   | (Optional) Secondary color contrast hex code. Accepted values: `#000000`, `#ffffff`.                                       | `#000000`         |

> | `signInPageTouchPointVariant`         | Enum     | Variant for Sign-in page. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`, `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`.               | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `signInPageTouchPointVariant`         | Enum     | Variant for sign-in page. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`, `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`.               | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |
```

> | `endUserDashboardTouchPointVariant`   | Enum     | Variant for End user dashboard. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `WHITE_LOGO_BACKGROUND`, `FULL_THEME`.                    | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `endUserDashboardTouchPointVariant`   | Enum     | Variant for the Okta End-User Dashboard. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `WHITE_LOGO_BACKGROUND`, `FULL_THEME`.                    | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |
```

> | `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | Enum     | Variant for Error page. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`, `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`.                 | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | Enum     | Variant for the error page. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`, `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`.                 | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |
```

> | `emailTemplateTouchPointVariant`      | Enum     | Variant for Email templates. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `FULL_THEME`.                                                | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `emailTemplateTouchPointVariant`      | Enum     | Variant for email templates. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `FULL_THEME`.                                                | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |
```

> > **Note:** Contrast color will be used by pages to optimize the opacity of text color when primary or secondary color is used as the background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Contrast color is used by pages to optimize the opacity of text color when primary or secondary color is used as the background.
```

> > **Note:** For existing Orgs with customizations, please refer to following [table](#data-migration-from-existing-orgs) for different scenarios with initial variant values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** For existing orgs with customizations, refer to following [table](#data-migration-from-existing-orgs) for different scenarios with initial variant values.
```

#### Variant Definition

A theme can be published for a page or email template with different combinations of assets, and `variants` are preset combinations of those assets.

#### Variants for Sign-in Page:

> > **Note:** For non `OKTA_DEFAULT` variant, `primaryColorHex` will be used for buttons background color and `primaryColorContrastHex` will be used to optimize the opacity for button text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** For a non `OKTA_DEFAULT` variant, `primaryColorHex` is used for button background color and `primaryColorContrastHex` is used to optimize the opacity for button text.
```

| Enum Value                      | Description                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use Okta default logo with no background image along with Okta default colors in the sign in page.   |

> | `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`    | Use logo from Theme with `secondaryColorHex` as background color for the sign in page.               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`    | Use the logo from Theme with the `secondaryColorHex` as the background color for the Okta Sign-In Page.  |
```

> | `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              | Use logo and background image from Theme.                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              | Use the logo and background image from Theme.                                                            |
```

> #### Variants for End User Dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Variants for the Okta End-User Dashboard:
```

| Enum Value                      | Description                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use Okta default logo with white background color for logo and side nav bar background color.                           |
| `WHITE_LOGO_BACKGROUND`         | Use logo from Theme with white background color for logo and use `primaryColorHex` for side nav bar background color.   |

> | `FULL_THEME`                    | Use logo from Theme and `primaryColorHex` for logo and side nav bar background color                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `FULL_THEME`                    | Use the logo from Theme and `primaryColorHex` for the logo and the side navigatioin bar background color                                    |
```

#### Variants for Error Page:

> > **Note:** For non `OKTA_DEFAULT` variant, `primaryColorHex` will be used for buttons background color and `primaryColorContrastHex` will be used to optimize the opacity for button text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** For non `OKTA_DEFAULT` variant, `primaryColorHex` is used for button background color and `primaryColorContrastHex` is used to optimize the opacity for button text.
```

| Enum Value                      | Description                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use Okta default logo along with Okta default background color.                                      |
| `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`    | Use logo from Theme with `secondaryColorHex` as background color for the error page.                 |
| `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              | Use logo and background image from Theme.                                                            |

#### Variants for Email Templates:

| Enum Value                      | Description                                                                     |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use Okta default logo along with Okta default colors in the email templates.    |

> | `FULL_THEME`                    | Use logo from Theme and `primaryColorHex` as background color for buttons.      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `FULL_THEME`                    | Use the logo from Theme and `primaryColorHex` as the background color for buttons.      |
```

##### Theme Example

```json
{
  "primaryColorHex": "#1662dd",
  "primaryColorContrastHex": "#ffffff",
  "secondaryColorHex": "#ebebed",
  "signInPageTouchPointVariant": "OKTA_DEFAULT",
  "endUserDashboardTouchPointVariant": "OKTA_DEFAULT",
  "errorPageTouchPointVariant": "OKTA_DEFAULT",
  "emailTemplateTouchPointVariant": "OKTA_DEFAULT"
}
```

### Theme Response Object

> #### Theme Response Properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Theme Response properties
```

| Property                              | Type                    | Description                                 |
| ------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                                  | String                  | Theme ID                                    |
| `logo`                                | String                  | Logo URL                                    |
| `favicon`                             | String                  | Favicon URL                                 |
| `backgroundImage`                     | String                  | Background image URL                        |
| `primaryColorHex`                     | String                  | Primary color hex code                      |
| `primaryColorContrastHex`             | String                  | Primary color contrast hex code             |
| `secondaryColorHex`                   | String                  | Secondary color hex code                    |
| `secondaryColorContrastHex`           | String                  | Secondary color contrast hex code           |

> | `signInPageTouchPointVariant`         | Enum                    | Variant for Sign In page                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `signInPageTouchPointVariant`         | Enum                    | Variant for the Okta Sign-In Page                    |
```

> | `endUserDashboardTouchPointVariant`   | Enum                    | Variant for End user dashboard              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `endUserDashboardTouchPointVariant`   | Enum                    | Variant for the Okta End-User Dashboard              |
```

> | `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | Enum                    | Variant for Error page                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | Enum                    | Variant for the error page                      |
```

> | `emailTemplateTouchPointVariant`      | Enum                    | Variant for Email templates                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `emailTemplateTouchPointVariant`      | Enum                    | Variant for email templates                 |
```

| `_links`                              | [Links](#links-object)  | Link relations for this object              |

> ##### Theme Response Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Theme Response example
```

  "secondaryColorContrastHex": "#000000",
  "signInPageTouchPointVariant": "OKTA_DEFAULT",
  "endUserDashboardTouchPointVariant": "OKTA_DEFAULT",
  "errorPageTouchPointVariant": "OKTA_DEFAULT",
  "emailTemplateTouchPointVariant": "OKTA_DEFAULT",
  "_links": {
    "favicon": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/bndul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/themes/thdul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/favicon",
      "hints": {
        "allow": [
          "POST",
          "DELETE"
        ]
      }
    },
    "self": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/bndul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/themes/thdul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3",
      "hints": {
        "allow": [
          "GET",
          "PUT"
        ]
      }
    },
    "logo": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/bndul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/themes/thdul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/logo",
      "hints": {
        "allow": [
          "POST",
          "DELETE"
        ]
      }
    },
    "background-image": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/bndul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/themes/thdul904tTZ6kWVhP0g3/background-image",
      "hints": {
        "allow": [
          "POST",
          "DELETE"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> ### Image Upload Response Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Image Upload Response object
```

The Image Upload Response object defines the following properties:

| Property | Type   | Description           |
|----------|------- |---------------------- |
| `url`    | String | URL of uploaded image |

> #### Image Upload Response Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Image Upload Response example
```

```json
{
  "url": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/assets/img/logos/okta-logo.47066819ac7db5c13f4c431b2687cef6.png"
}
```

### Links object

> Specifies link relations (see [Web Linking](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8288)) available for the current status of an application using the [JSON Hypertext Application Language](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kelly-json-hal-06) specification. This object is used for dynamic discovery of related resources and lifecycle operations. The Links object is read-only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies link relations available for the current status of an application using the [JSON Hypertext Application Language](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kelly-json-hal-06) specification. This object is used for dynamic discovery of related resources and lifecycle operations. The Links object is read-only. See [Web Linking](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8288)) for more information on link relations.
```

> ## Existing Org Scenarios

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Existing org scenarios
```

> ### Data migration from existing Orgs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Data migration from existing orgs
```

> Initial Theme variant values will be different for existing Orgs with customizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initial Theme variant values are different for existing orgs with customizations.
```

| Property                              | Org Logo Uploaded     | Background Image Uploaded  | Initial Value                   |
| ------------------------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `signInPageTouchPointVariant`         | no                    | no                         | `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  |
| `signInPageTouchPointVariant`         | yes                   | no                         | `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`    |
| `signInPageTouchPointVariant`         | yes                   | yes                        | `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              |
| `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | no                    | no                         | `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  |
| `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | yes                   | no                         | `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`    |
| `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | yes                   | yes                        | `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              |

> ### Logo Scenarios

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Logo scenarios
```

> Following scenarios explains which logo will be used when based on `THEME_BUILDER` flag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following scenarios explains which logo is used when based on the `THEME_BUILDER` flag.
```

| `THEME_BUILDER` feature status        | Can Upload Org Logo | Can Upload Theme Logo  | Logo Used On Pages   |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------- |
| Enabled                               | yes                 | yes                    | Theme logo           |
| Disabled                              | yes                 | no                     | Org logo             |

> > **NOTE:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Notes:**
```

> > Enabling `THEME_BUILDER` feature will automatically update the Theme logo from Org. Org logo will still be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Enabling the `THEME_BUILDER` feature automatically updates the Theme logo from Org. The Org logo is still stored.
```

> > Disabling `THEME_BUILDER` feature will use the logo configured for the Org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Disabling the `THEME_BUILDER` feature uses the logo configured for the Org.
```

> > Pages will use the logo from the source defined above based on feature status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Pages use the logo from the source defined above based on feature status.
```

| `emailTemplateTouchPointVariant`      | Enum     | Variant for Email templates touch point. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `FULL_THEME`.                                    | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |

#### Theme Touch Point Variant Definitions

##### Sign In Page Touch Point Variant:

> **Note:** For non `OKTA_DEFAULT` variant, `primaryColorHex` will be used for buttons background color and `primaryColorContrastHex` will be used to identify shade for button text

| Enum Value                      | Description                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use Okta default Logo with no background image along with Okta default colors in the sign in page.   |
| `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`    | Use Logo from Theme with `secondaryColorHex` as background color for the sign in page.               |

> | `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              | Use Logo and background image from Theme.                                                            |

Author: @TiffanyNg-okta please verify the touch point variant applicability

Reviewer 3: Looks good for sign in page variants. Thanks Arsalan!

nit: We should probably be consistent with capitalization/casing as in `Logo` vs `background image/color` vs `sign in page`. Maybe that's something docs team can help with.

Author: thanks for verifying. 
good catch. I have used lower case for now to make the content consistent

##### End User Dashboard Touch Point Variant:

| Enum Value                      | Description                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use Okta default Logo with white background color for logo and side nav bar background color.                           |
| `WHITE_LOGO_BACKGROUND`         | Use Logo from Theme with white background color for logo and use `primaryColorHex` for side nav bar background color.   |

> | `FULL_THEME`                    | Use Logo from Theme and `primaryColorHex` for logo and side nav bar background color                                    |

Author: @francoislehoux-okta  please verify the touch point variant applicability

##### Error Page Touch Point Variant:

> **Note:** For non `OKTA_DEFAULT` variant, `primaryColorHex` will be used for buttons background color and `primaryColorContrastHex` will be used to identify shade for button text

| Enum Value                      | Description                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use Okta default Logo with no background image along with Okta default colors in the error page.     |
| `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`    | Use Logo from Theme with `secondaryColorHex` as background color for the error page.                 |

> | `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              | Use Logo and background image from Theme.                                                            |

Author: @justinabrokwah-okta   please verify the touch point variant applicability

Reviewer 2: Looks good for error pages!

One thing, I think i wouldn't say `Okta default colours in the error page`, because the text and icon colours within the error container don't change with ThemeBuilder and that may confuse users. Maybe something like `Use Okta default logo along with Okta default background colour`

Author: thanks for verifying. updated the content

##### Email Templates Touch Point Variant:

| Enum Value                      | Description                                                                     |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use Okta default Logo along with Okta default colors in the email templates.    |

> | `FULL_THEME`                    | Use Logo from Theme and `primaryColorHex` as background color for buttons.      |

Author: @snehaarvindmani-okta  please verify the touch point variant applicability

---
title: Brands
category: management
---

# Brands API

> 

Reviewer 4: Add

`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />`

> The Okta Brands API provides operations to manage branding for your organization.

Reviewer 4: Proposal:

`The Okta Brands API allows customization of the look and feel of your end-user pages. Upload your ]colors, background image, logo, and favicon, and then publish these assets directly to the Okta-hosted sign in page, error pages, email templates, and end-user dashboard.

| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use Okta default logo with no background image along with Okta default colors in the sign in page.   |
| `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`    | Use logo from Theme with `secondaryColorHex` as background color for the sign in page.               |
| `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`              | Use logo and background image from Theme.                                                            |

#### Variants for End User Dashboard:

| Enum Value                      | Description                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OKTA_DEFAULT`                  | Use Okta default logo with white background color for logo and side nav bar background color.                           |
| `WHITE_LOGO_BACKGROUND`         | Use logo from Theme with white background color for logo and use `primaryColorHex` for side nav bar background color.   |

> | `FULL_THEME`                    | Use logo from Theme and `primaryColorHex` for logo and side nav bar background color                                    |

Reviewer 5: Make sense

| `errorPageTouchPointVariant`          | Enum     | Variant for Error page. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `BACKGROUND_SECONDARY_COLOR`, `BACKGROUND_IMAGE`.                 | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |
| `emailTemplateTouchPointVariant`      | Enum     | Variant for Email templates. Accepted values: `OKTA_DEFAULT`, `FULL_THEME`.                                                | `OKTA_DEFAULT`    |

> > **Note:** Contrast color will be used by pages to identify opacity of text color where primary or secondary color is used as background color.

Author: @TiffanyNg-okta @francoislehoux-okta forgot to add about contrast colors. please verify if this looks accurate

Reviewer 3: Hmm what were you trying to say with `identify opacity of text color`? Since contrast color is just a color, we should be comparing/using it against a color. So I think we can just say `determine the text color` or something similar. Feels like including `opacity` might be too much detail that doesn't make sense without more explanation/context. Another option might be `identify the shade of text color`. 

But also, I'm not a writer so 🤷 I think you've got the general idea though so it's fine with me if everyone else is ok with it.

Author: I am also not sure how to represent this piece. I like `identify the shade of text color`, will update with that to start with.

Reviewer 4: I prefer `opacity`, since `shade` could mean hue. How about:

"Contrast color will be used by pages to optimize the opacity of text color when primary or secondary color is used as the background."
